exercises/05.complex-structures/README.mdx, before:

# Complex Structures

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/professional-web-forms/complex-structures/intro-to-complex-structures" />

How would you represent an array in an HTML form? Maybe you'd do something like
this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Wash dishes" />
</form>
```

While that's technically valid HTML, it's not very useful. If you inspected the
`formData`, you'd get this:

```tsx
const formData = new FormData(form)
formData.get('todo') // null
formData.get('todo[]') // "Buy milk"
```

Not quite what you want. The `FormData` API is similar in some ways to the
`Headers` API and the `URLSearchParams` API. They have entries that can have
multiple values with the same name. So, if you wanted to represent those todos
in a form, you could do something like this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Wash dishes" />
</form>
```

```tsx
const formData = new FormData(form)
formData.getAll('todo') // ["Buy milk", "Buy eggs", "Wash dishes"]
```

One way to think about this is that the `FormData` object is as an array of
key/value pairs, like this:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo', 'Buy milk'],
	['todo', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo', 'Wash dishes'],
]
```

And the reason for this is because there's no way in HTML to represent an object
or an array. Only key/value pairs.

Another problem we have with the `FormData` API is that forms cannot be nested.

So this is not allowed:

```html remove=2-5 nonumber
<form>
	<form>
		<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
		<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
	</form>
</form>
```

This is not allowed. This has unfortunate implications for how you might
represent more complex data structures like an object, or array of objects.
Let's say you want to add a "completed" property to each todo. You could do
something like this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Wash dishes" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
</form>
```

If we visualize this as an array of key/value pairs, it would look like this:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo', 'Buy milk'],
	['completed', 'on'],
	['todo', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo', 'Wash dishes'],
	['completed', 'on'],
]
```

Whoops, didn't I tell you, in the `FormData` API, a checked checkbox is
represented by the string "on" and an unchecked checkbox is represented by
just not appearing in the form data at all 😱

So we can't really rely on the order of elements in the form data to convert
this into anything useful. We need to use more specific names for each input:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo[0].content" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[0].complete" checked />
	<input type="text" name="todo[1].content" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[1].complete" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[2].content" value="Wash dishes" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[2].complete" checked />
</form>
```

Then we can visualize this as an array of key/value pairs:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo[0].content', 'Buy milk'],
	['todo[0].complete', 'on'],
	['todo[1].content', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo[2].content', 'Wash dishes'],
	['todo[2].complete', 'on'],
]
```

Then, we can use some fancy JS to convert this into a more useful object:

```tsx
const data = {
	todos: [
		{ content: 'Buy milk', complete: true },
		{ content: 'Buy eggs', complete: false },
		{ content: 'Wash dishes', complete: true },
	],
}
```

And _that_ is something we can work with! 😩 Phew, what a pain.

## Conform

Luckily for us, this is something Conform has already thought about and has
great support for! With [nested objects and arrays](https://conform.guide/complex-structures).

### Objects

To handle nested objects, you use what Conform refers to as
a `fieldset` which actually maps nicely to the HTML `<fieldset>` semantic
element.

Here's a quick example of this:

```tsx line=8,13-16
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldset, conform } from '@conform-to/react'

function Example() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm<Schema>({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const addressFields = useFieldset(form.ref, fields.address)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<fieldset>
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.street)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.zipcode)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.city)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.country)} />
			</fieldset>
		</form>
	)
}
```

For the `name` attribute, Conform would use `address.street`, etc. But this is
all an implementation detail for you. Ultimately after parsing and everything,
you'll wind up with an object:

```tsx
const data = {
	address: {
		street: '123 Main St',
		zipcode: '12345',
		city: 'New York',
		country: 'USA',
	},
}
```

### Arrays

For arrays, you'll use Conform's `useFieldList` hook:

```tsx
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldList, conform } from '@conform-to/react'

function Example() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const list = useFieldList(form.ref, fields.tasks)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<ul>
				{list.map(task => (
					<li key={task.key}>
						{/* Set the name to `task[0]`, `tasks[1]` etc */}
						<input {...conform.input(task)} />
					</li>
				))}
			</ul>
		</form>
	)
}
```

When that gets parsed, you'll wind up with an array:

```tsx
const data = {
	tasks: ['Buy milk', 'Buy eggs', 'Wash dishes'],
}
```

With arrays, it can be tricky because you often want to allow the user to add
and remove elements of the array, so you need some extra logic to handle that.
Luckily, Conform has utilities for exactly this with its
[`intent` button](https://conform.guide/intent-button) utils:

```tsx
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldList, conform, list } from '@conform-to/react'

export default function Todos() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const taskList = useFieldList(form.ref, fields.tasks)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<ul>
				{taskList.map((task, index) => (
					<li key={task.key}>
						<input {...conform.input(task)} />
						<button {...list.remove(tasks.name, { index })}>Delete</button>
					</li>
				))}
			</ul>
			<div>
				<button {...list.insert(tasks.name)}>Add task</button>
			</div>
			<button>Save</button>
		</form>
	)
}
```

What's amazingly awesomely cool about this is that it actually works
_without JavaScript_. That's just something to nerd out a bit on, but really
what's nice about this is that it allows you to build forms that are used to
generate complex data structures. Combine that with Zod schema validation and
you've got yourself a really powerful form solution.

- [📜 FormData](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData)
- [📜 Conform Nested Objects and Arrays](https://conform.guide/complex-structures)
- [📜 Conform Intent Button](https://conform.guide/intent-button)

Commit message:

add reference to breaking conform changes
Closes #44

exercises/05.complex-structures/README.mdx, after:

# Complex Structures

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/professional-web-forms/complex-structures/intro-to-complex-structures" />

How would you represent an array in an HTML form? Maybe you'd do something like
this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[]" value="Wash dishes" />
</form>
```

While that's technically valid HTML, it's not very useful. If you inspected the
`formData`, you'd get this:

```tsx
const formData = new FormData(form)
formData.get('todo') // null
formData.get('todo[]') // "Buy milk"
```

Not quite what you want. The `FormData` API is similar in some ways to the
`Headers` API and the `URLSearchParams` API. They have entries that can have
multiple values with the same name. So, if you wanted to represent those todos
in a form, you could do something like this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Wash dishes" />
</form>
```

```tsx
const formData = new FormData(form)
formData.getAll('todo') // ["Buy milk", "Buy eggs", "Wash dishes"]
```

One way to think about this is that the `FormData` object is as an array of
key/value pairs, like this:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo', 'Buy milk'],
	['todo', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo', 'Wash dishes'],
]
```

And the reason for this is because there's no way in HTML to represent an object
or an array. Only key/value pairs.

Another problem we have with the `FormData` API is that forms cannot be nested.

So this is not allowed:

```html remove=2-5 nonumber
<form>
	<form>
		<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
		<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
	</form>
</form>
```

This is not allowed. This has unfortunate implications for how you might
represent more complex data structures like an object, or array of objects.
Let's say you want to add a "completed" property to each todo. You could do
something like this:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" />
	<input type="text" name="todo" value="Wash dishes" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="completed" checked />
</form>
```

If we visualize this as an array of key/value pairs, it would look like this:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo', 'Buy milk'],
	['completed', 'on'],
	['todo', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo', 'Wash dishes'],
	['completed', 'on'],
]
```

Whoops, didn't I tell you, in the `FormData` API, a checked checkbox is
represented by the string "on" and an unchecked checkbox is represented by
just not appearing in the form data at all 😱

So we can't really rely on the order of elements in the form data to convert
this into anything useful. We need to use more specific names for each input:

```html
<form>
	<input type="text" name="todo[0].content" value="Buy milk" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[0].complete" checked />
	<input type="text" name="todo[1].content" value="Buy eggs" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[1].complete" />
	<input type="text" name="todo[2].content" value="Wash dishes" />
	<input type="checkbox" name="todo[2].complete" checked />
</form>
```

Then we can visualize this as an array of key/value pairs:

```tsx remove=1 nonumber
// this is just a visualization, form data is not an array of arrays.
const formData = [
	['todo[0].content', 'Buy milk'],
	['todo[0].complete', 'on'],
	['todo[1].content', 'Buy eggs'],
	['todo[2].content', 'Wash dishes'],
	['todo[2].complete', 'on'],
]
```

Then, we can use some fancy JS to convert this into a more useful object:

```tsx
const data = {
	todos: [
		{ content: 'Buy milk', complete: true },
		{ content: 'Buy eggs', complete: false },
		{ content: 'Wash dishes', complete: true },
	],
}
```

And _that_ is something we can work with! 😩 Phew, what a pain.

## Conform

Luckily for us, this is something Conform has already thought about and has
great support for! With [nested objects and arrays](https://conform.guide/complex-structures).

### Objects

To handle nested objects, you use what Conform refers to as
a `fieldset` which actually maps nicely to the HTML `<fieldset>` semantic
element.

Here's a quick example of this:

```tsx line=8,13-16
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldset, conform } from '@conform-to/react'

function Example() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm<Schema>({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const addressFields = useFieldset(form.ref, fields.address)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<fieldset>
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.street)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.zipcode)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.city)} />
				<input {...conform.input(addressFields.country)} />
			</fieldset>
		</form>
	)
}
```

For the `name` attribute, Conform would use `address.street`, etc. But this is
all an implementation detail for you. Ultimately after parsing and everything,
you'll wind up with an object:

```tsx
const data = {
	address: {
		street: '123 Main St',
		zipcode: '12345',
		city: 'New York',
		country: 'USA',
	},
}
```

### Arrays

For arrays, you'll use Conform's `useFieldList` hook:

```tsx
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldList, conform } from '@conform-to/react'

function Example() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const list = useFieldList(form.ref, fields.tasks)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<ul>
				{list.map(task => (
					<li key={task.key}>
						{/* Set the name to `task[0]`, `tasks[1]` etc */}
						<input {...conform.input(task)} />
					</li>
				))}
			</ul>
		</form>
	)
}
```

When that gets parsed, you'll wind up with an array:

```tsx
const data = {
	tasks: ['Buy milk', 'Buy eggs', 'Wash dishes'],
}
```

With arrays, it can be tricky because you often want to allow the user to add
and remove elements of the array, so you need some extra logic to handle that.
Luckily, Conform has utilities for exactly this with its
[`intent` button](https://conform.guide/intent-button) utils:

```tsx
// example inspired from the Conform docs
import { useForm, useFieldList, conform, list } from '@conform-to/react'

export default function Todos() {
	const [form, fields] = useForm({
		// ... config stuff including the schema
	})
	const taskList = useFieldList(form.ref, fields.tasks)

	return (
		<form {...form.props}>
			<ul>
				{taskList.map((task, index) => (
					<li key={task.key}>
						<input {...conform.input(task)} />
						<button {...list.remove(tasks.name, { index })}>Delete</button>
					</li>
				))}
			</ul>
			<div>
				<button {...list.insert(tasks.name)}>Add task</button>
			</div>
			<button>Save</button>
		</form>
	)
}
```

What's amazingly awesomely cool about this is that it actually works
_without JavaScript_. That's just something to nerd out a bit on, but really
what's nice about this is that it allows you to build forms that are used to
generate complex data structures. Combine that with Zod schema validation and
you've got yourself a really powerful form solution.

As a reminder from <Link to="/03">exercise 3</Link>, conform v1 was released
after and this lesson is also impacted by breaking change updates. This workshop
material still uses pre-1.0 conform. You can watch the video in exercise 3 for
more details on what changed.

- [📜 FormData](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData)
- [📜 Conform Nested Objects and Arrays](https://conform.guide/complex-structures)
- [📜 Conform Intent Button](https://conform.guide/intent-button)
