exercises/07.csrf/01.solution.setup/README.mdx, before:

# CSRF Setup

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/professional-web-forms/cross-site-request-forgery/csrf-protection-with-cookies/solution" />

👨‍💼 Great! You should now be able to get that cookie value set in the browser's
"cookie jar." You can verify this by opening the browser's developer tools and
looking at the cookies for the page under the "Application" tab. The cookie
will be called "csrf" and have a value that looks like a bunch of nonsense like:

```
IjdDa3p6WkV1d3NNel&nev3r&60nna&gIv3&yoU&uP&UW0zYmxDMDNyRjQi.NM71601wmCvZ%2FZaGIG6wV%2FuX%2FvGafzDEAmamK1hNu88
```

And while you can't visually verify it, that (unsigned) token value is in the
browser as well. You can check by executing this in the console:

```js
__remixContext.state.loaderData.root.csrfToken
```

Which should get you something like this:

```
7Ck&Nev3r&60nna&1et&yoU&d0wn&UOfQm3blC03rF4
```

So the next step is to get that into our form and verify it to prove that the
form was submitted using our app and not some other site. Let's go!

Commit message:

more info re viewing csrf cookie

exercises/07.csrf/01.solution.setup/README.mdx, after:

# CSRF Setup

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/professional-web-forms/cross-site-request-forgery/csrf-protection-with-cookies/solution" />

👨‍💼 Great! You should now be able to get that cookie value set in the browser's
"cookie jar." You can verify this by opening the browser's developer tools and
looking at the cookies for the page under the "Application" tab. The cookie
will be called "csrf" and have a value that looks like a bunch of nonsense like:

```
IjdDa3p6WkV1d3NNel&nev3r&60nna&gIv3&yoU&uP&UW0zYmxDMDNyRjQi.NM71601wmCvZ%2FZaGIG6wV%2FuX%2FvGafzDEAmamK1hNu88
```

And while you can't visually verify it, that (unsigned) token value is in the
browser as well. You can check by executing this in the console (note that this
will only work when viewing the app in a separate tab, else it will look for the
token at the wrong port):

```js
__remixContext.state.loaderData.root.csrfToken
```

Which should get you something like this:

```
7Ck&Nev3r&60nna&1et&yoU&d0wn&UOfQm3blC03rF4
```

So the next step is to get that into our form and verify it to prove that the
form was submitted using our app and not some other site. Let's go!
